README.md, before:

<a href="http://cloudslang.io/">
    <img src="https://camo.githubusercontent.com/ece898cfb3a9cc55353e7ab5d9014cc314af0234/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f696849353630562e706e67" alt="CloudSlang logo" title="CloudSlang" align="right" height="60"/>
</a>

CloudSlang Plugin for IntelliJ  
================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/CloudSlang/cs-intellij-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/CloudSlang/cs-intellij-plugin)

This repository contains an IntelliJ plugin that provides support for [CloudSlang](http://cloudslang.io/) in *IntelliJ IDEA* IDE.  
  
![CloudSlang Plugin demo](/screenshots/plugin-overview.png)

## Table of Contents

1. [Features](#features)  
2. [Installation](#installation)  
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
4. [Contribution Guideline](#contribution-guideline)

<a name="features"/>
 
## Features

* CloudSlang file type support (.sl, .sl.yaml, .sl.yml, .prop.sl)
* Live templates (e.g: flow, operation, input, output, step, for, java_action etc.)
* Completion support for CloudSlang keywords
* Syntax highlighting
* CloudSlang file validation and error highlighting

<a name="installation"/>

## Installation

1. Install the CloudSlang IntelliJ Plugin in IntelliJ using the **Plugin Installation Wizard** from **File** > **Settings** > **Plugins** > **Browse repositories...** and search for: **CloudSlang plugin.** 
3. Click __Apply__ button of the __Settings__ dialog.

> Following the system prompt that appears, restart IntelliJ IDEA to activate the installed plugin, or postpone it, at your choice.

<a name="getting-started"/>

## Getting Started

This is a short tutorial showing how to start developing CloudSlang content.

##### 1. Create a new Project 
  
From the **New Project** dialog, select the **CloudSlang** project type.

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-project.png)
  
##### 2. Create a namespace
  
Under the new project, create a structure of directories for items grouping:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-namespace.png)

You can notice the following directory structure under your project:
    
![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-namespace-structure.png)
 
##### 3. Create a new CloudSlang file 

Under the **base** directory, create a new file with one of the following extensions: **.sl, .sl.yaml, .sl.yml, .prop.sl**  
When a file with one of these extensions is created, a CloudSlang icon is associated to it:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/file-type.png)

> By default, empty CloudSlang files are marked as invalid. 

##### 4. Create a new CloudSlang flow from a live template

Open the __first_flow.sl__ file and place the cursor inside the editor.  
  
You can insert a **flow** template in two ways:  
* Press __Ctrl + J__ to display a list of all available live templates. You can navigate up and down inside this list and select the desired template, that will be extended in the editor.  

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/all-live-templates.png)

* Start typing the _flow_ word and the template will appear in the suggestions list

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/live-template-example.png)

> You can always identify CloudSlang templates in the suggestions list by the **CloudSlang Template** description at right.

After the template is expended in IntelliJ, you may be required to provide values for some input fields. You can navigate between input fields by pressing __Tab__. 

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/template-input-fields.png)

##### 5. Use completion support for CloudSlang keywords

You can easily modify the flow using CloudSlang keywords support. Whenever you start typing, a suggestion list with CloudSlang keywords will appear:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/completion-example.png)

To see the complete list of CloudSlang keywords, press **Ctrl + Space**

> In order to differentiate between keywords and live templates in the suggestions list, note that keywords have a small CloudSlang icon at left, while live templates have the **CloudSlang Template** description at right 

##### 6. Use error highlighting to ensure that your flow is correct

Errors are marked with a red underline inside files. Hover over the underlined item to see the error messages:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/error-highlighting.png)

<a name="contribution-guideline"/>

## Contribution Guideline

##### If you would like to contribute to the plugin, please read the [Contributing Guideline](/CONTRIBUTING.md) here.

Commit message:

Several improvements Declared default Java behavior Update dependencies to latest released Fixed checkstyle errors Declared default task to clean and build Updated CONTRIBUTING.md Updated gradle release to 4.6-all Fixed runIde task issue when developing Updated README.md to contain local build and development instructions Fixed development to SNAPSHOT version Fixed custom import order and other Java related behavior to avoid common warnings Removed gradle.properties as it is no longer needed Removed release tag from gradle.build as there is no longer needed Tested with latest dependencies and their transitive ones (no issues),
Signed-off-by: Sorin Moldovan <coladdicted@yahoo.com>

README.md, after:

<a href="http://cloudslang.io/">
    <img src="https://camo.githubusercontent.com/ece898cfb3a9cc55353e7ab5d9014cc314af0234/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f696849353630562e706e67" alt="CloudSlang logo" title="CloudSlang" align="right" height="60"/>
</a>

CloudSlang Plugin for IntelliJ  
================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/CloudSlang/cs-intellij-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/CloudSlang/cs-intellij-plugin)

This repository contains an IntelliJ plugin that provides support for [CloudSlang](http://cloudslang.io/) in *IntelliJ IDEA* IDE.  
  
![CloudSlang Plugin demo](/screenshots/plugin-overview.png)

## Table of Contents

1. [Features](#features)  
2. [Installation](#installation)  
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
4. [Build and test locally](#build-and-test)
5. [Contribution Guideline](#contribution-guideline)

<a name="features"/>
 
## Features

* CloudSlang file type support (.sl, .sl.yaml, .sl.yml, .prop.sl)
* Live templates (e.g: flow, operation, input, output, step, for, java_action etc.)
* Completion support for CloudSlang keywords
* Syntax highlighting
* CloudSlang file validation and error highlighting

<a name="installation"/>

## Installation

1. Install the CloudSlang IntelliJ Plugin in IntelliJ using the **Plugin Installation Wizard** from **File** > **Settings** > **Plugins** > **Browse repositories...** and search for: **CloudSlang plugin.** 
2. Click __Apply__ button of the __Settings__ dialog.

> Following the system prompt that appears, restart IntelliJ IDEA to activate the installed plugin, or postpone it, at your choice.

<a name="getting-started"/>

## Getting Started

This is a short tutorial showing how to start developing CloudSlang content.

##### 1. Create a new Project 
  
From the **New Project** dialog, select the **CloudSlang** project type.

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-project.png)
  
##### 2. Create a namespace
  
Under the new project, create a structure of directories for items grouping:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-namespace.png)

You can notice the following directory structure under your project:
    
![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/new-namespace-structure.png)
 
##### 3. Create a new CloudSlang file 

Under the **base** directory, create a new file with one of the following extensions: **.sl, .sl.yaml, .sl.yml, .prop.sl**  
When a file with one of these extensions is created, a CloudSlang icon is associated to it:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/file-type.png)

> By default, empty CloudSlang files are marked as invalid. 

##### 4. Create a new CloudSlang flow from a live template

Open the __first_flow.sl__ file and place the cursor inside the editor.  
  
You can insert a **flow** template in two ways:  
* Press __Ctrl + J__ to display a list of all available live templates. You can navigate up and down inside this list and select the desired template, that will be extended in the editor.  

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/all-live-templates.png)

* Start typing the _flow_ word and the template will appear in the suggestions list

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/live-template-example.png)

> You can always identify CloudSlang templates in the suggestions list by the **CloudSlang Template** description at right.

After the template is expended in IntelliJ, you may be required to provide values for some input fields. You can navigate between input fields by pressing __Tab__. 

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/template-input-fields.png)

##### 5. Use completion support for CloudSlang keywords

You can easily modify the flow using CloudSlang keywords support. Whenever you start typing, a suggestion list with CloudSlang keywords will appear:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/completion-example.png)

To see the complete list of CloudSlang keywords, press **Ctrl + Space**

> In order to differentiate between keywords and live templates in the suggestions list, note that keywords have a small CloudSlang icon at left, while live templates have the **CloudSlang Template** description at right 

##### 6. Use error highlighting to ensure that your flow is correct

Errors are marked with a red underline inside files. Hover over the underlined item to see the error messages:

![CloudSlang File Type](/screenshots/error-highlighting.png)

<a name="build-and-test"/>

Build and Test locally
----------------------

 * "gradlew assemble" to build plugin in build/distributions
 * "gradlew runIde" to run IntelliJ IDEA with CloudSlang plugin

<a name="contribution-guideline"/>

## Contribution Guideline

##### If you would like to contribute to the plugin, please read the [Contributing Guideline](/CONTRIBUTING.md) here.
